# Privacy

**Last updated:** 2025-07-04 16:11

## 0.0 Introduction

0.0.1 The developer of Liberatube believes, privacy in the modern world is slowly being eroded. Liberatube uses a strict but open set of rules that instance operators must follow to ensure security of users data. I also ensure there will be no updates which claim to be for users benefit and secretly take away their privacy.

## 0.1 Definitions

0.1.1 Instance Operator - The person(s) running an instance of Liberatube.

0.1.2 PII - Personally Identifiable Information

## 0.2 Basic Information

0.2.1 The Instance Operator is responsible for handling data subject requests.

## 1.0 Data Collection and Usage

### 1.1 User Data

1.1.1 Liberatube does not collect any personally identifiable information (PII) from its users.

1.1.2 No tracking, ads, or data collection occurs within Liberatube.

1.1.3 Liberatube utilizes the Invidious API, which implements mechanisms to bypass Google’s data collection practices and enhance user privacy.

### 1.2 Account System

1.2.1 Liberatube offers user accounts to store user settings, watch history, playlists and subscriptions.

1.2.2 Account creation requires only a username and password.

1.2.3 No additional PII is collected during account creation.

1.2.4 When in the process of deleting your account, you will have to provide the associated password that you used for sign up, all associated data is permanently erased. If you can not provide the password, it is up to the discretion of the instance operator to decide what happens to the account.

### 1.3 Usage Analytics

1.3.1 Liberatube does not track user behavior or collect analytics data. Liberatube only stores and will only store data which is necessary to the operation of the service.

### 1.4 Third Party Services

1.4.1 Liberatube does integrate with a third party service called Librebook, data is only transferred to a Librebook instance which is specified by the logged in user, the data sent does not contain Liberatube PII, for Librebook privacy, see the Librebook privacy policy.

## 2.0 Liability and Legal Considerations

### 2.1 Use of Liberatube

2.1.1 We take no responsibility for the use of Liberatube or any external instances provided by third parties.

2.1.2 Users are strongly encouraged to comply with valid official regulations in their respective countries.

### 2.2 Inappropriate Use

2.2.1 We refuse liability for any inappropriate use of Liberatube, such as illegal downloading of material protected by copyright.

2.2.2 Liberatube is provided as free, open software, and users should exercise responsible and legal usage.

### 2.3 Updates to this Privacy Policy

2.3.1 I reserve the right to update this privacy policy when new features are added to the service which require changes to how data is being stored and processed.

2.3.2 Since there is no way to contact a User who has an account on Liberatube they can not be notified of such policy changes. However the changes that are allowed to be made cannot allow a new exchange of user data to another party.
